Name : Shravya Mohan
Class : 3A
USN : ENG24CY0049


LINUX PROGRAMMING ASSIGNMENT 3


1)Distinguish between man and whatis commands? Justify with proper example.

ANS: Man command (Manual): This is our go to for comprehensive documentation. When we type man ls, it opens a full, detailed guide explaining every single option, the syntax, and examples of how to use the ls command. We have to scroll through it to find what we need.

Whatis command: This gives you a one line, short description. It is perfect for when we forgot what a command basically does or when we are quickly scanning through similar-sounding commands.

Example uses: 
man ls

whatis ls

 

2) Use the tee command to save the output of ls -l into a file while also displaying it.

ANS:
 


3) Explain with an example how the tee command can be used in logging.

ANS: 
ping -c 5 google.com | tee pinglog.txt
This sends 5 ICMP echo requests to google.com, shows the output live, and logs it into pinglog.txt for future reference or debugging.



4) List the steps involved in installing Ubuntu 25.04 LTS on Oracle VirtualBox.
ANS: 
1. Download Ubuntu ISO: Get Ubuntu 25.04 LTS ISO from the official Ubuntu website.
2. Install VirtualBox: Download and install Oracle VirtualBox.
3. Create New VM:
o Click New
o Name: Ubuntu2504
o Type: Linux
o Version: Ubuntu (64-bit)
4. Assign Resources:
o RAM: Minimum 2048 MB
o CPU: At least 2 cores
o Hard disk: Create a virtual hard disk (VDI), 20GB or more
5. Mount ISO:
o Go to Settings > Storage ? Mount the downloaded ISO file as Optical Drive.
6. Start VM:
o Boot from ISO and start the Ubuntu installation.
7. Install Ubuntu:
o Follow on-screen instructions: select language, keyboard, partitions, user setup.
8. Post-Install:
o Eject ISO
o Reboot VM
o Install Guest Additions for better performance (optional)

5) During Ubuntu OS installation, you face a Kernel Panic Error. How would you troubleshoot it?
ANS: 
1. Check ISO Integrity:
o Verify checksum (SHA256) of the downloaded ISO.
2. Recreate Bootable ISO (if using USB):
o Use tools like Rufus or Balena Etcher.
3. Ensure Enough RAM & Disk Space:
o Allocate at least 2 GB RAM and 20 GB disk.
4. Disable Secure Boot/EFI in VM Settings
5. Use Safe Graphics Mode:
o Choose “Install Ubuntu (safe graphics)” from boot menu.
6. Check VirtualBox Version:
o Use the latest version. Outdated versions may not support new kernels.


6) Write the command to display the system’s hostname? How to change hostname using sysctl command?
ANS: 
Display hostname:


Change hostname using sysctl:
sudo sysctl kernel.hostname=new-hostname
(This change is temporary and resets after reboot)

For permanent change, modify:
sudo nano /etc/hostname
sudo nano /etc/hosts
Then reboot.


7) Which command is used to show the calendar of the year 1984 with August month?
ANS: 



8) Write a command to display system uptime and logged-in users together
ANS:
One of these:





9) Use the find command to list all “.c” files in /home/user. 

ANS: 
find /home/user -type f -name '*.c'

BUT 
If no .c files,



10) How do you change file permissions to allow only the owner to read and write?
ANS: 
chmod 600 filename

This sets permissions to:
Owner: read and write, Group: none, Others: none
